a beginning is the time for taking the most delicate care that the balances are correct. this every sister of the bene gesserit knows. to begin your study of the life of muad'dib then take care that you first place him in his time born in the th year of the padishah emperor shaddam iv. and take the most special care that you locate muad'dib in his place the planet arrakis. do not be deceived by the fact that he was born on caladan and lived his first fifteen years there. arrakis the planet known as dune is forever his place. from manual of muad'dib by the princess irulan in the week before their departure to arrakis when all the final scurrying about had reached a nearly unbearable frenzy an old crone came to visit the mother of the boy paul. it was a warm night at castle caladan and the ancient pile of stone that had served the atreides family as home for twentysix generations bore that cooledsweat feeling it acquired before a change in the weather. the old woman was let in by the side door down the vaulted passage by paul's room and she was allowed a moment to peer in at him where he lay in his bed. by the halflight of a suspensor lamp dimmed and hanging near the floor the awakened boy could see a bulky female shape at his door standing one step ahead of his mother. the old woman was a witch shadow hair like matted spiderwebs hooded 'round darkness of features eyes like glittering jewels. is he not small for his age jessica the old woman asked. her voice wheezed and twanged like an untuned baliset. paul's mother answered in her soft contralto the atreides are known to start late getting their growth your reverence. so i've heard so i've heard wheezed the old woman. yet he's already fifteen. yes your reverence. he's awake and listening to us said the old woman. sly little rascal. she chuckled. but royalty has need of slyness. and if he's really the kwisatz haderach . . . well . . . within the shadows of his bed paul held his eyes open to mere slits. two birdbright ovals the eyes of the old woman seemed to expand and glow as they stared into his. sleep well you sly little rascal said the old woman. tomorrow you'll need all your faculties to meet my gom jabbar. and she was gone pushing his mother out closing the door with a solid thump. paul lay awake wondering what's a gom jabbar in all the upset during this time of change the old woman was the strangest thing he had seen. your reverence. and the way she called his mother jessica like a common serving wench instead of what she was a bene gesserit lady a duke's concubine and mother of the ducal heir. is a gom jabbar something of arrakis i must know before we go there he wondered. he mouthed her strange words gom jabbar . . . kwisatz haderach. there had been so many things to learn. arrakis would be a place so different from caladan that paul's mind whirled with the new knowledge. arrakis dune desert planet. thufir hawat his father's master of assassins had explained it their mortal enemies the harkonnens had been on arrakis eighty years holding the planet in quasifief under a choam company contract to mine the geriatric spice melange. now the harkonnens were leaving to be replaced by the house of atreides in fiefcomplete an apparent victory for the duke leto. yet hawat had said this appearance contained the deadliest peril for the duke leto was popular among the great houses of the landsraad. a popular man arouses the jealousy of the powerful hawat had said. arrakis dune desert planet. paul fell asleep to dream of an arrakeen cavern silent people all around him moving in the dim light of glowglobes. it was solemn there and like a cathedral as he listened to a faint sound the dripdripdrip of water. even while he remained in the dream paul knew he would remember it upon awakening. he always remembered the dreams that were predictions. the dream faded. paul awoke to feel himself in the warmth of his bed thinking . . . thinking. this world of castle caladan without play or companions his own age perhaps did not deserve sadness in farewell. dr. yueh his teacher had hinted that the faufreluches class system was not rigidly guarded on arrakis. the planet sheltered people who lived at the desert edge without caid or bashar to command them willo'thesand people called fremen marked down on no census of the imperial regate. arrakis dune desert planet. paul sensed his own tensions decided to practice one of the mindbody lessons his mother had taught him. three quick breaths triggered the responses he fell into the floating awareness . . . focusing the consciousness . . . aortal dilation . . . avoiding the unfocused mechanism of consciousness . . . to be conscious by choice . . . blood enriched and swiftflooding the overload regions . . . one does not obtain foodsafetyfreedom by instinct alone . . . animal consciousness does not extend beyond the given moment nor into the idea that its victims may become extinct . . . the animal destroys and does not produce . . . animal pleasures remain close to sensation levels and avoid the perceptual . . . the human requires a background grid through which to see his universe . . . focused consciousness by choice this forms your grid . . . bodily integrity follows nerveblood flow according to the deepest awareness of cell needs . . . all things cells beings are impermanent . . . strive for flow permanence within . . .        