what ho what ho this fellow is dancing madhe hath been bitten by the tarantula. all in the wrong. many years ago i contracted an intimacy with a mr. william legrand. he was of an ancient huguenot family and had once been wealthy but a series of misfortunes had reduced him to want. to avoid the mortification consequent upon his disasters he left new orleans the city of his forefathers and took up his residence at sullivan's island near charleston south carolina. this island is a very singular one. it consists of little else than the sea sand and is about three miles long. its breadth at no point exceeds a quarter of a mile. it is separated from the main land by a scarcely perceptible creek oozing its way through a wilderness of reeds and slime a favorite resort of the marshhen. the vegetation as might be supposed is scant or at least dwarfish. no trees of any magnitude are to be seen. near the western extremity where fort moultrie stands and where are some miserable frame buildings tenanted during summer by the fugitives from charleston dust and fever may be found indeed the bristly palmetto but the whole island with the exception of this western point and a line of hard white beach on the seacoast is covered with a dense undergrowth of the sweet myrtle so much prized by the horticulturists of england. the shrub here often attains the height of fifteen or twenty feet and forms an almost impenetrable coppice burthening the air with its fragrance. in the inmost recesses of this coppice not far from the eastern or more remote end of the island legrand had built himself a small hut which he occupied when i first by mere accident made his acquaintance. this soon ripened into friendship for there was much in the recluse to excite interest and esteem. i found him well educated with unusual powers of mind but infected with misanthropy and subject to perverse moods of alternate enthusiasm and melancholy. he had with him many books but rarely employed them. his chief amusements were gunning and fishing or sauntering along the beach and through the myrtles in quest of shells or entomological specimenshis collection of the latter might have been envied by a swammerdamm. in these excursions he was usually accompanied by an old negro called jupiter who had been manumitted before the reverses of the family but who could be induced neither by threats nor by promises to abandon what he considered his right of attendance upon the footsteps of his young massa will. it is not improbable that the relatives of legrand conceiving him to be somewhat unsettled in intellect had contrived to instil this obstinacy into jupiter with a view to the supervision and guardianship of the wanderer. the winters in the latitude of sullivan's island are seldom very severe and in the fall of the year it is a rare event indeed when a fire is considered necessary. about the middle of october there occurred however a day of remarkable chilliness. just before sunset i scrambled my way through the evergreens to the hut of my friend whom i had not visited for several weeks my residence being at that time in charleston a distance of nine my miles from the island while the facilities of passage and repassage were very far behind those of the present day. upon reaching the hut i rapped as was my custom and getting no reply sought for the key where i knew it was secreted unlocked the door and went in. a fine fire was blazing upon the hearth. it was a novelty and by no means an ungrateful one. i threw off an overcoat took an armchair by the crackling logs and awaited patiently the arrival of my hosts. soon after dark they arrived and gave me a most cordial welcome. jupiter grinning from ear to ear bustled about to prepare some marshhens for supper. legrand was in one of his fits how else shall i term them of enthusiasm. he had found an unknown bivalve forming a new genus and more than this he had hunted down and secured with jupiter's assistance a scarabaeus which he believed to be totally new but in respect to which he wished to have my opinion on the morrow. and why not tonight i asked rubbing my hands over the blaze and wishing the whole tribe of scarabaei at the devil. ah if i had only known you were here said legrand but it's so long since i saw you and how could i foresee that you would pay me a visit this very night of all others as i was coming home i met lieutenant g from the fort and very foolishly i lent him the bug so it will be impossible for you to see it until morning. stay here tonight and i will send jup down for it at sunrise. it is the loveliest thing in creation what sunrise nonsense no the bug. it is of a brilliant gold color about the size of a large hickorynut with two jet black spots near one extremity of the back and another somewhat longer at the other. the antennae are dey aint no tin in him massa will i keep a tellin on you here interrupted jupiter de bug is a goole bug solid ebery bit of him inside and all sep him wing neber feel half so hebby a bug in my life. well suppose it is jup replied legrand somewhat more earnestly it seemed to me than the case demanded is that any reason for your letting the birds burn the color here he turned to me is really almost enough to warrant jupiter's idea. you never saw a more brilliant metallic lustre than the scales emit but of this you cannot judge till tomorrow. in the mean time i can give you some idea of the shape. saying this he seated himself at a small table on which were a pen and ink but no paper. he looked for some in a drawer but found none. never mind said he at length this will answer and he drew from his waistcoat pocket a scrap of what i took to be very dirty foolscap and made upon it a rough drawing with the pen. while he did this i retained my seat by the fire for i was still chilly. when the design was complete he handed it to me without rising. as i received it a loud growl was heard succeeded by a scratching at the door. jupiter opened it and a large newfoundland belonging to legrand rushed in leaped upon my shoulders and loaded me with caresses for i had shown him much attention during previous visits. when his gambols were over i looked at the paper and to speak the truth found myself not a little puzzled at what my friend had depicted. well i said after contemplating it for some minutes this is a strange scarabaeus i must confess new to me never saw anything like it before unless it was a skull or a death'shead which it more nearly resembles than anything else that has come under my observation. a death'shead echoed legrand oh yes well it has something of that appearance upon paper no doubt. the two upper black spots look like eyes eh and the longer one at the bottom like a mouth and then the shape of the whole is oval. perhaps so said i but legrand i fear you are no artist. i must wait until i see the beetle itself if i am to form any idea of its personal appearance. well i don't know said he a little nettled i draw tolerably should do it at least have had good masters and flatter myself that i am not quite a blockhead. but my dear fellow you are joking then said i this is a very passable skull indeed i may say that it is a very excellent skull according to the vulgar notions about such specimens of physiology and your scarabaeus must be the queerest scarabaeus in the world if it resembles it. why we may get up a very thrilling bit of superstition upon this hint. i presume you will call the bug scarabaeus caput hominis or something of that kind there are many titles in the natural histories. but where are the antennae you spoke of the antennae said legrand who seemed to be getting unaccountably warm upon the subject i am sure you must see the antennae. i made them as distinct as they are in the original insect and i presume that is sufficient. well well i said perhaps you have still i don't see them and i handed him the paper without additional remark not wishing to ruffle his temper but i was much surprised at the turn affairs had taken his ill humor puzzled me and as for the drawing of the beetle there were positively no antennae visible and the whole did bear a very close resemblance to the ordinary cuts of a death'shead. he received the paper very peevishly and was about to crumple it apparently to throw it in the fire when a casual glance at the design seemed suddenly to rivet his attention. in an instant his face grew violently red in another as excessively pale. for some minutes he continued to scrutinize the drawing minutely where he sat. at length he arose took a candle from the table and proceeded to seat himself upon a seachest in the farthest corner of the room. here again he made an anxious examination of the paper turning it in all directions. he said nothing however and his conduct greatly astonished me yet i thought it prudent not to exacerbate the growing moodiness of his temper by any comment. presently he took from his coat pocket a wallet placed the paper carefully in it and deposited both in a writingdesk which he locked. he now grew more composed in his demeanor but his original air of enthusiasm had quite disappeared. yet he seemed not so much sulky as abstracted. as the evening wore away he became more and more absorbed in reverie from which no sallies of mine could arouse him. it had been my to pass the night at the hut as i had frequently done before but seeing my host in this mood i deemed it proper to take leave. he did not press me to remain but as i departed he shook my hand with even more than his usual cordiality. it was about a month after this and during the interval i had seen nothing of legrand when i received a visit at charleston from his man jupiter. i had never seen the good old negro look so dispirited and i feared that some serious disaster had befallen my friend. well jup said i what is the matter now how is your master why to speak de troof massa him not so berry well as mought be. not well i am truly sorry to hear it. what does he complain of dar dat's it him neber plain of notin but him berry sick for all dat. very sick jupiter why didn't you say so at once is he confined to bed no dat he ain't he ain't find nowhar dat's just whar de shoe pinch my mind is got to be berry hebby bout poor massa will. jupiter i should like to understand what it is you are talking about. you say your master is sick. hasn't he told you what ails him why massa taint worf while for to git mad bout de matter massa will say noffin at all ain't de matter wid him but den what make him go about looking dis here way wid he head down and he soldiers up and as white as a gose and den he keep a syphon all de time keeps a what jupiter keeps a syphon wid de figgurs on de slate de queerest figgurs i ebber did see. ise gittin to be skeered i tell you. hab for to keep mighty tight eye pon him noovers. todder day he gib me slip fore de sun up and was gone de whole ob de blessed day. i had a big stick ready cut for to gib him dd good beating when he did come but ise sich a fool dat i hadn't de heart arter all he look so berry poorly. eh what ah yes upon the whole i think you had better not be too severe with the poor fellow don't flog him jupiter he can't very well stand it but can you form no idea of what has occasioned this illness or rather this change of conduct has anything unpleasant happened since i saw you no massa dey ain't bin noffin onpleasant since den 't was fore den i'm feared 't was de berry day you was dare. how what do you mean why massa i mean de bug dare now. the what de bug i'm berry sartain dat massa will bin bit somewhere bout de head by dat goolebug. and what cause have you jupiter for such a supposition claws enoff massa and mouff too. i nabber did see sich a dd wild and desolate where no trace of a human footstep was to be seen. legrand led the way with decision pausing only for an instant here and there to consult what appeared to be certain landmarks of his own contrivance upon a former occasion. in this manner we journeyed for about two hours and the sun was just setting when we entered a region infinitely more dreary than any yet seen. it was a species of table land near the summit of an almost inaccessible hill densely wooded from base to pinnacle and interspersed with huge crags that appeared to lie loosely upon the soil and in many cases were prevented from precipitating themselves into the valleys below merely by the support of the trees against which they reclined. deep ravines in various directions gave an air of still sterner solemnity to the scene. the natural platform to which we had clambered was thickly overgrown with brambles through which we soon discovered that it would have been impossible to force our way but for the scythe and jupiter by direction of his master proceeded to clear for us a path to the foot of an enormously tall tulip tree which stood with some eight or ten oaks upon the level and far surpassed them all and all other trees which i had then ever seen in the beauty of its foliage and form in the wide spread of its branches and in the general majesty of its appearance. when we reached this tree legrand turned to jupiter and asked him if he thought he could climb it. the old man seemed a little staggered by the question and for some moments made no reply. at length he approached the huge trunk walked slowly around it and examined it with minute attention. when he had completed his scrutiny he merely said yes massa jup climb any tree he ebber see in he life. then up with you as soon as possible for it will soon be too dark to see what we are about. how far mus go up massa inquired jupiter. get up the main trunk first and then i will tell you which way to go and here stop take this beetle with you. de bug massa will de goole bug cried the negro drawing back in dismay what for mus tote de bug way up de tree dn if i do if you are afraid jup a great big negro like you to take hold of a harmless little dead beetle why you can carry it up by this string but if you do not take it up with you in some way i shall be under the necessity of breaking your head with this shovel. what de matter now massa said jup evidently shamed into compliance always want for to raise fuss wid old nigger. was only funnin' anyhow. me feered de bug what i keer for de bug here he took cautiously hold of the extreme end of the string and maintaining the insect as far from his person as circumstances would permit prepared to ascend the tree. in youth the tuliptree or liriodendron tulipiferum the most magnificent of american foresters has a trunk peculiarly smooth and often rises to a great height without lateral branches but in its riper age the bark becomes gnarled and uneven while many short limbs make their appearance on the stem. thus the difficulty of ascension in the present case lay more in semblance than in reality. embracing the huge cylinder as closely as possible with his arms and knees seizing with his hands some projections and resting his naked toes upon others jupiter after one or two narrow escapes from falling at length wriggled himself into the first great fork and seemed to consider the whole business as virtually accomplished. the risk of the achievement was in fact now over although the climber was some sixty or seventy feet from the ground. which way mus go now massa will he asked. keep up the largest branch the one on this side said legrand. the negro obeyed him promptly and apparently with but little trouble ascending higher and higher until no glimpse of his squat figure could be obtained through the dense foliage which enveloped it. presently his voice was heard in a sort of halloo. how much fudder is got for go how high up are you asked legrand. ebber so fur replied the negro can see de sky fru de top ob de tree. never mind the sky but attend to what i say. look down the trunk and count the limbs below you on this side. how many limbs have you passed one two tree four fibe i done pass fibe big limb massa pon dis side. then go one limb higher. in a few minutes the voice was heard again announcing that the seventh limb was attained. now jup cried legrand evidently much excited i want you to work your way out upon that limb as far as you can. if you see anything strange let me know. by this time what little doubt i might have entertained of my poor friend's insanity was put finally at rest. i had no alternative but to conclude him stricken with lunacy and i became seriously anxious about getting him home. while i was pondering upon what was best to be done jupiter's voice was again heard. mos' feerd for to ventur pon dis limb berry far 'tis dead limb putty much all de way. did you say it was a dead limb jupiter cried legrand in a quavering voice. yes massa him dead as de doornail done up for sartain done departed dis here life. what in the name of heaven shall i do asked legrand seemingly in the greatest distress. do said i glad of an opportunity to interpose a word why come home and go to bed. come now that's a fine fellow. it's getting late and besides you remember your promise. jupiter cried he without heeding me in the least do you hear me yes massa will hear you ebber so plain. try the wood well then with your knife and see if you think it very rotten. him rotten massa sure nuff replied the negro in a few moments but not so berry rotten as mought be. mought ventur out leetle way pon de limb by myself dat's true. by yourself what do you mean why i mean de bug. tis berry hebby bug. spose i drop him down fuss and den de limb won't break wid just de weight ob one nigger. you infernal scoundrel cried legrand apparently much relieved what do you mean by telling me such nonsense as that as sure as you let that beetle fall i'll break your neck. look here jupiter do you hear me yes massa needn't hollo at poor nigger dat style. well now listen if you will venture out on the limb as far as you think safe and not let go the beetle i'll make you a present of a silver dollar as soon as you get down. i'm gwine massa will deed i is replied the negro very promptly mos out to the eend now. out to the end here fairly screamed legrand do you say you are out to the end of that limb soon be to de eend massa oooooh lorgola marcy what is dis here pon de tree well cried legrand highly delighted what is it why taint noffin but a skull somebody bin lef him head up de tree and de crows done gobble ebery bit ob de meat off. a skull you say very well how is it fastened to the limb what holds it on sure nuff massa mus look. why dis berry curous sarcumstance pon my word dare's a great big nail in de skull what fastens ob it on to de tree. well now jupiter do exactly as i tell you do you hear yes massa. pay attention then find the left eye of the skull. hum hoo dat's good why dar ain't no eye lef' at all. curse your stupidity do you know your right hand from your left yes i nose dat nose all bout dat 'tis my left hand what i chops de wood wid. to be sure you are lefthanded and your left eye is on the same side as your left hand. now i suppose you can find the left eye of the skull or the place where the left eye has been. have you found it here was a long pause. at length the negro asked is de lef' eye of de skull pon de same side as de lef' hand of de skull too cause de skull ain't got not a bit ob a hand at all nebber mind i got de lef' eye now here de lef' eye what mus do wid it let the beetle drop through it as far as the string will reach but be careful and not let go your hold of the string. all dat done massa will mighty easy ting for to put de bug fru de hole look out for him dar below during this colloquy no portion of jupiter's person could be seen but the beetle which he had suffered to descend was now visible at the end of the string and glistened like a globe of burnished gold in the last rays of the setting sun some of which still faintly illumined the eminence upon which we stood. the scarabaeus hung quite clear of any branches and if allowed to fall would have fallen at our feet. legrand immediately took the scythe and cleared with it a circular space three or four yards in diameter just beneath the insect and having accomplished this ordered jupiter to let go the string and come down from the tree.           